Welcome to the section on tree methods a very powerful group of algorithms falls under the tree method's
title and we'll be discussing decision trees random forests and gradient boosted trees.
Now I can't really do justice to such a wide variety of topics.
So I really recommend you read Chapter 8 of an introduction to mystical learning OK.
Let's start off of thought experiments give some motivation behind using a decision tree method.
Imagine that I play tennis every Saturday and I always invite a friend to come with me.
Sometimes my friend shows up and sometimes he doesn't.
For him it really depends on a variety of factors or features such as the weather outlook the temperature
the humidity the wind etc..
And I start keeping track of these features and whether or not he showed up to play with me.
So in that getting some data that looks like this and hopefully this sort of structure looks familiar
to you by now.
I have temperature with some categorical column the outlook humidity Wednesday and then my label whether
or not my friend came out to play with me I want to use this data to predict whether or not he will
show up to play in an intuitive way to do this is through decision tree which we've drawn out here as
a little diagram and industry we have nodes and nodes are these split for the value of a certain attribute
or feature.
You can see here splitting on the outlook feature than the humidity feature as well as the windy feature
the edges are the outcome of a split.
The next note.
So you can see here if I split outlook on Sydney then my next note becomes checking for the humidity.
And after that we have two more features which are the root and the leaves.
The root is the No that performs the first split.
In this case that's the outlook node.
That's the very first feature that I'm splitting on that I have the leaves which are the terminal nodes
that predict the outcome.
So those green and red yes or no nodes.
Now question you may have is how do we actually decide what features to split on and in what order.
So few Colback one slide.
How do we decide to split an outlook first instead of humidity first.
So what we want to do is try to get some intuition behind these splits.
Let's look at this imaginary data set with three features X Y and Z with two possible classes.
Class A or class B.
Now if I split on y that gives us a clear separation between classes.
All I have to do is ask why.
Well one of them is split perfectly between class a class B.
So if we go back one slide I can see here that according to that middle y column that lines up exactly
the class that I'm trying to predict as far as the split value.
So there may be a good idea to try to split on that first we could have also tried splitting on other
features and we can see here the results of first splitting on X Y or Z where y gives me that perfect
classification if I split on that first.
So what we really want to do is figure out some sort of methodology for deciding what features to split
on and how to split on them.
So entropy and information gain are the mathematical methods of choosing the best split.
And I would refer you to the reading assignment if you're interested in finding out more about the mathematics
behind entropy and information gain.
All of this stuff is done by Sparke for you behind the scenes.
But if you're interested in the mathematics behind it you can always refer to that chapter 8 reading
assignment and that will definitely touch upon entropy and information gain which is basically how we
decide the best split.
Now the message we just discussed refer to decision trees.
But we can try to improve performance by incorporating a random force.
What we can do is use many trees with the random sample of features chosen as the split where he knew
random sample of features is chosen for every single tree every single split.
And keep in mind this method works for both classification and regression tasks classification we'll
just end up taking votes for what class this particular sample belongs to regression.
We'll just take the average of the predicted values and then set that as it's predicted continuous label.
So you maybe wondering what's the point of choosing a random set of samples.
That's kind of a weird idea.
Well suppose there's one really strong feature in the dataset then most of the trees will end up using
that feature as the top split resulting in an ensemble of similar trees that are highly correlated and
then averaging highly correlated quantities does not significantly reduce variance.
So what we end up doing is by randomly leaving out candidate features from each split ran the forests
the Coralee the trees such that the averaging process can reduce the variance of the resulting model.
So finally let's discuss gradient to trees gradient boosting involves three main elements.
A last function to be optimized.
A weak learner to make predictions and an additive model to add weak learners to minimize the lost function
solaces.
Each of those the last function in basic terms is just a function or equation you will use to determine
how far off your predictions are.
So for example we've actually seen some loss functions the regression may use a squared error last function
and something like classification may use a logarithmic loss.
We won't have to deal this directly using Sparke as far as choosing the last function.
In fact basically all the theory that we discuss here happens under the hood.
In fact that's the whole purpose of using Sparke is that someone already coded this out for you.
And so all the hard work so onto that second point of the week learner decision trees are used as the
weak learner in gradient boosting its comments constrain the week learners such as constraining the
maximum number of layers or nodes or splits or leaf nodes.
Then we have an additive model where trees can be added in one at a time and existing trees in the model
are not changed a gradient the set procedure is used to minimize the loss when adding the trees.
So what is the most intuitive way to think about all of this if Spark's basically doing all of this
for us under the hood.
What do you want to keep in the back of your mind when using Ingredion boosted trees.
So here's the nice way to think about it.
And three quote easy steps.
So the first step would be to train a week model M using data samples drawn according to some sort of
weight distribution.
So each sample has a weight to it and then we want to do is increase the weight of samples that are
misclassified by model M and decrease the weight of samples that are classified correctly by model M
then we train the next week model using samples drawn according to the updated weight distribution.
And in this way basically what we're doing is the algorithm always trains models using data samples
that are quote difficult to learn.
In previous rounds which results in an ensemble of models that are really good at learning different
parts of that training data.
Basically this is boosting the weights of samples that were difficult to get correct.
Which is where this boosted name comes from the real details of greedy and boosting lies in the mathematics
which you may or may not be ready for the pending on your background.
So I encourage you to read the full details there towards the end of Chapter 8 and I SLR in case you're
interested in the mathematics behind everything we discussed here.
So for the most part Sparke is taking care of all of this for you.
Someone already did the hard work of coding all this out and then before that someone that all the hard
work of figuring out the mathematics behind all of this.
So again Sparke handles all of this for you.
You can just use the defaults if you want or dive into Eissler and begin to play around with some of
the parameters.
OK let's continue on by walking through the documentation example for Python and Sparc and these various
methods.